README.md, before:

# Improved Pywallet - Python 3 Compatible Bitcoin Wallet Tool

This is an improved version of pywallet with full Python 3 support and enhanced recovery features.

## New Features

### 1. **Full Python 3 Support** ✅
- Removed experimental Python 3 warnings
- Fixed all Python 2/3 compatibility issues
- Proper string/bytes handling
- Updated deprecated function calls

### 2. **Enhanced Key Recovery** ✅
- **New `--output_keys` option**: Export recovered keys to a text file instead of creating a wallet
- **Improved size format support**: Now accepts both old (Mo, Gio) and new (MB, GB) formats
- **Better error handling**: Clearer error messages and validation
- **WIF format support**: Recovered keys are now also output in WIF format for easy import into other wallets
- **Berkeley DB BDB2509 Error Fix**: Automatic resolution of database environment conflicts using temporary isolation

### 3. **Backward Compatibility** ✅
- All original functionality preserved
- Existing command-line options work unchanged
- Compatible with existing wallet files

## Installation

### Quick Setup
```bash
# Make build script executable and run it
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

### Manual Setup
```bash
# Install system dependencies (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt-get install libdb-dev python3-dev build-essential python3-venv

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv pywallet_build_env
source pywallet_build_env/bin/activate

# Install Python dependencies
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install bsddb3 pycrypto cryptography
```

## Usage

### Important: Choose the Right Command

**⚠️ IMPORTANT:** There are two different approaches for extracting keys, choose the right one:

#### For Intact Wallet Files (Recommended)
If you have a complete, non-corrupted `wallet.dat` file and know the password:
```bash
# Extract keys from intact wallet with known password
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w wallets/wallet1.dat --extract_password=YOUR_PASSWORD --extract_output=keys.txt
```

#### For Damaged/Lost Wallet Data (Advanced)
If your wallet is corrupted, deleted, or you're scanning raw disk data:
```bash
# Recover keys from damaged/corrupted data
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --output_keys=recovered_keys.txt
```

### Using the Run Script (Recommended)
```bash
# Show help
./run_pywallet.sh --help

# Extract from intact wallet (FAST - use this if you have a working wallet.dat)
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w wallets/wallet1.dat --extract_password=1234 --extract_output=keys.txt

# Recover keys from damaged data (SLOW - only use for actual recovery)
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --output_keys=recovered_keys.txt

# Traditional wallet recovery
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --recov_outputdir=./recovery
```

### Manual Usage
```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source pywallet_build_env/bin/activate

# Run pywallet
python3 pywallet/pywallet.py [options]
```

## Command Line Options

### Key Extraction Options (For Intact Wallets)

#### `--extract_advanced`
Extract keys from a complete, intact wallet file with known password.
- **Usage**: `--extract_advanced -w wallet.dat --extract_password=PASSWORD`
- **Fast and efficient**: Direct database access, no byte scanning
- **Best for**: Complete wallet files with known passwords

#### `--extract_password=PASSWORD`
Specify the wallet password for key extraction.
- **Usage**: `--extract_password=your_wallet_password`
- **Required with**: `--extract_advanced`
- **Security tip**: Use quotes if password contains special characters

#### `--extract_output=FILENAME`
Specify output file for extracted keys.
- **Usage**: `--extract_output=extracted_keys.txt`
- **Default**: Keys are printed to console if not specified
- **Format**: Same as `--output_keys` (hex and WIF formats)

#### `--extract_max_keys=NUMBER` (Optional)
Limit the number of keys to extract.
- **Usage**: `--extract_max_keys=20`
- **Default**: 10 keys (if not specified)
- **Useful for**: Testing or limiting output size
- **Note**: You can omit this parameter to extract up to 10 keys by default

### Recovery Options (For Damaged Data)

#### `--output_keys=FILENAME`
Export recovered private keys to a text file instead of creating a wallet.
- **Usage**: `--output_keys=keys.txt`
- **Output format**: Private keys in both hex and WIF formats
- **Includes**: Both compressed and uncompressed versions of each key
- **Use with**: `--recover` option

### Enhanced `--recov_size`
Now supports modern size formats:
- **Old formats**: `20Mo`, `50Gio` (still supported)
- **New formats**: `20MB`, `50GB`, `100MB`, `2GB`
- **Examples**: 
  - `--recov_size=100MB`
  - `--recov_size=2GB`
  - `--recov_size=500MB`
- **Optional for files**: When `--recov_device` points to a file, `--recov_size` becomes optional
  - If not specified, the entire file will be read
  - Example: `--recov_device=/path/to/backup.img` (will read the entire file)

### WIF Format Conversion Tools

#### `--priv2wif=HEXKEY`
Convert a private key in hex format to WIF format.
- **Usage**: `--priv2wif=0C28FCA386C7A227600B2FE50B7CAE11EC86D3BF1FBE471BE89827E19D72AA1D`
- **Output**: Displays the WIF format of the provided hex private key

#### `--wif2priv=WIFKEY`
Convert a WIF format private key to hex format.
- **Usage**: `--wif2priv=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ`
- **Output**: Displays the hex format of the provided WIF private key

#### `--wifcheck=WIFKEY`
Check if a WIF format private key is valid.
- **Usage**: `--wifcheck=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ`
- **Output**: Displays whether the WIF key passes checksum validation

## Key Extraction vs Recovery: What's the Difference?

### `--extract_advanced` (For Intact Wallets)
**Use this when:**
- ✅ You have a complete `wallet.dat` file
- ✅ You know the wallet password
- ✅ The wallet file is not corrupted
- ✅ You want fast key extraction

**How it works:**
- Treats the file as a complete, valid wallet database
- Uses the known password to decrypt keys directly
- Follows normal wallet database structure
- **Fast and efficient**

**Example:**
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w wallets/wallet1.dat --extract_password=1234 --extract_output=keys.txt
```

### `--recover` (For Damaged/Missing Wallet Data)
**Use this when:**
- 🔧 Your wallet file is corrupted or partially deleted
- 🔧 You're scanning a hard drive for wallet remnants
- 🔧 You don't have a complete wallet.dat file
- 🔧 You're working with raw disk images or partitions

**How it works:**
- Scans data byte-by-byte looking for wallet patterns
- Attempts to reconstruct wallet information from fragments
- Requires manual passphrase input during the process
- **Much slower and more intensive**

**Example:**
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --output_keys=recovered_keys.txt
```

### Why `--recover` Might Hang
If you use `--recover` on an intact wallet file:
- It will scan the file byte-by-byte (unnecessary and slow)
- It will prompt for passphrases interactively
- It may appear to hang during decryption attempts
- **This is the wrong tool for the job!**

## Examples

### 1. Extract Keys from Intact Wallet (Recommended)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced \
    -w wallets/wallet1.dat \
    --extract_password=your_password \
    --extract_output=my_keys.txt \
    --extract_max_keys=100
```

### 2. Basic Key Recovery from Damaged Data
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/dev/sda1 \
    --recov_size=500MB \
    --output_keys=my_recovered_keys.txt
```

### 2. Large Scale Recovery
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/dev/sdb1 \
    --recov_size=10GB \
    --output_keys=all_keys.txt
```

### 3. File-based Recovery (with Size Limit)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/path/to/disk/image.img \
    --recov_size=1GB \
    --output_keys=recovered.txt
```

### 4. File-based Recovery (Automatic Size Detection)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/path/to/backup.img \
    --output_keys=recovered.txt
```

### 5. Traditional Wallet Creation (Unchanged)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/dev/sda1 \
    --recov_size=100MB \
    --recov_outputdir=./wallet_recovery
```

### 6. Convert Hex Private Key to WIF
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --priv2wif=0C28FCA386C7A227600B2FE50B7CAE11EC86D3BF1FBE471BE89827E19D72AA1D
```

### 7. Convert WIF to Hex Private Key
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --wif2priv=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ
```

### 8. Validate a WIF Key
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --wifcheck=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ
```

## Output Format

When using `--output_keys`, the text file contains both hex and WIF formats:
```
# Recovered private keys
# Generated by pywallet recovery
# Format: private keys in both hex and WIF formats
# Each key is provided in both uncompressed and compressed format

# HEX FORMAT KEYS:
3c9229289a6125f7fdf1885a77bb12c37a8d3b4962d936f7e3084dece32a3ca1
3c9229289a6125f7fdf1885a77bb12c37a8d3b4962d936f7e3084dece32a3ca101
e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b855
e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b85501
...

# WIF FORMAT KEYS:
5JA7QYoYKimso8jHZrUGDLLiqwEJa3uKyUQnpMcPyxP8jNG8acc
KwdMAjGmerYanjeui5SHS7JkmpZvVipYvB2LJGU1ZxJwYvP98617
5Jbm9rrusXMYL8HqtVJWANrKZWGNgMXTYqN9VVvV71TjdphjRPR
KyBwDMRRz5Xd1XVo4JPcgoLiC9UYFNRmYEjXQvBKBBsRZtCNUPWM
...
```

## System Requirements

- **Python**: 3.6 or higher
- **OS**: Linux, macOS, Windows (with WSL)
- **Memory**: Minimum 1GB RAM
- **Storage**: Depends on recovery size

## Troubleshooting

### Berkeley DB Error (BDB2509)
If you get an error like: `Error opening wallet: (22, 'Invalid argument -- BDB2509 the log files from a database environment')`

**Cause:** Stale Berkeley DB environment files in the wallet directory.

**✅ FIXED IN VERSION 2.2-py3-improved:**
This issue has been **automatically resolved** in the current version! The `--extract_advanced` command now uses:
- **Temporary directory isolation**: Creates a clean temporary environment for each extraction
- **Progressive database opening**: Tries multiple database access methods automatically
- **Smart fallback system**: Starts with simple direct access, then tries minimal environment, then full environment
- **Automatic cleanup**: Removes all temporary files after extraction

**The fix works automatically - no manual intervention needed!**

**Legacy Manual Solutions** (for older versions or if issues persist):
1. **Remove stale database files:**
   ```bash
   # Navigate to your wallet directory
   cd wallets/
   # Remove Berkeley DB environment files
   rm -f __db.*
   ```

2. **Copy wallet to clean directory:**
   ```bash
   # Create a clean directory
   mkdir clean_wallets
   # Copy only the wallet.dat file (not the __db.* files)
   cp wallets/wallet.dat clean_wallets/
   # Use the clean copy
   ./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w clean_wallets/wallet.dat --extract_password=PASSWORD --extract_output=keys.txt
   ```

3. **Check wallet file integrity:**
   ```bash
   # Verify the wallet file is not corrupted
   file wallets/wallet.dat
   # Should show: "Berkeley DB (Log, version X, native byte-order)"
   ```

**Technical Details of the Fix:**
The BDB2509 error occurred because the Berkeley DB environment was being opened with the `DB_RECOVER` flag, which created conflicting `__db.*` environment files. The fix implements:

1. **Isolated Temporary Environment**: Each extraction operation uses a fresh temporary directory
2. **Progressive Access Strategy**:
   - First: Direct database access (fastest, no environment files)
   - Second: Minimal environment with memory pool only
   - Third: Full environment without logging
   - Final: Full environment with all flags as fallback
3. **Comprehensive Cleanup**: All temporary files and database environments are properly closed and removed

This ensures that wallet extractions never interfere with each other or leave stale environment files.

### Virtual Environment Issues
```bash
# Recreate virtual environment
rm -rf pywallet_build_env
./install.sh
```

### Permission Issues
```bash
# Make scripts executable
chmod +x install.sh run_pywallet.sh
```

### Missing Dependencies
```bash
# Install system dependencies
sudo apt-get install libdb-dev python3-dev build-essential
```

## Version Information

- **Version**: 2.2-py3-improved
- **Python Support**: 3.6+
- **Based on**: pywallet 2.2
- **Improvements**: Python 3 compatibility, enhanced recovery features

## License

Same as original pywallet project.

Commit message:

fix/texts come before the passphrase input

README.md, after:

# Improved Pywallet - Python 3 Compatible Bitcoin Wallet Tool

This is an improved version of pywallet with full Python 3 support and enhanced recovery features.

## New Features

### 1. **Full Python 3 Support** ✅
- Removed experimental Python 3 warnings
- Fixed all Python 2/3 compatibility issues
- Proper string/bytes handling
- Updated deprecated function calls

### 2. **Enhanced Key Recovery** ✅
- **New `--output_keys` option**: Export recovered keys to a text file instead of creating a wallet
- **Improved size format support**: Now accepts both old (Mo, Gio) and new (MB, GB) formats
- **Better error handling**: Clearer error messages and validation
- **WIF format support**: Recovered keys are now also output in WIF format for easy import into other wallets
- **Berkeley DB BDB2509 Error Fix**: Automatic resolution of database environment conflicts using temporary isolation
- **Fixed UI prompt ordering**: Passphrase instructions now display properly before the input prompt

### 3. **Backward Compatibility** ✅
- All original functionality preserved
- Existing command-line options work unchanged
- Compatible with existing wallet files

## Installation

### Quick Setup
```bash
# Make build script executable and run it
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

### Manual Setup
```bash
# Install system dependencies (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt-get install libdb-dev python3-dev build-essential python3-venv

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv pywallet_build_env
source pywallet_build_env/bin/activate

# Install Python dependencies
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install bsddb3 pycrypto cryptography
```

## Usage

### Important: Choose the Right Command

**⚠️ IMPORTANT:** There are two different approaches for extracting keys, choose the right one:

#### For Intact Wallet Files (Recommended)
If you have a complete, non-corrupted `wallet.dat` file and know the password:
```bash
# Extract keys from intact wallet with known password
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w wallets/wallet1.dat --extract_password=YOUR_PASSWORD --extract_output=keys.txt
```

#### For Damaged/Lost Wallet Data (Advanced)
If your wallet is corrupted, deleted, or you're scanning raw disk data:
```bash
# Recover keys from damaged/corrupted data
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --output_keys=recovered_keys.txt
```

### Using the Run Script (Recommended)
```bash
# Show help
./run_pywallet.sh --help

# Extract from intact wallet (FAST - use this if you have a working wallet.dat)
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w wallets/wallet1.dat --extract_password=1234 --extract_output=keys.txt

# Recover keys from damaged data (SLOW - only use for actual recovery)
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --output_keys=recovered_keys.txt

# Traditional wallet recovery
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --recov_outputdir=./recovery
```

### Manual Usage
```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source pywallet_build_env/bin/activate

# Run pywallet
python3 pywallet/pywallet.py [options]
```

## Command Line Options

### Key Extraction Options (For Intact Wallets)

#### `--extract_advanced`
Extract keys from a complete, intact wallet file with known password.
- **Usage**: `--extract_advanced -w wallet.dat --extract_password=PASSWORD`
- **Fast and efficient**: Direct database access, no byte scanning
- **Best for**: Complete wallet files with known passwords

#### `--extract_password=PASSWORD`
Specify the wallet password for key extraction.
- **Usage**: `--extract_password=your_wallet_password`
- **Required with**: `--extract_advanced`
- **Security tip**: Use quotes if password contains special characters

#### `--extract_output=FILENAME`
Specify output file for extracted keys.
- **Usage**: `--extract_output=extracted_keys.txt`
- **Default**: Keys are printed to console if not specified
- **Format**: Same as `--output_keys` (hex and WIF formats)

#### `--extract_max_keys=NUMBER` (Optional)
Limit the number of keys to extract.
- **Usage**: `--extract_max_keys=20`
- **Default**: 10 keys (if not specified)
- **Useful for**: Testing or limiting output size
- **Note**: You can omit this parameter to extract up to 10 keys by default

### Recovery Options (For Damaged Data)

#### `--output_keys=FILENAME`
Export recovered private keys to a text file instead of creating a wallet.
- **Usage**: `--output_keys=keys.txt`
- **Output format**: Private keys in both hex and WIF formats
- **Includes**: Both compressed and uncompressed versions of each key
- **Use with**: `--recover` option

### Enhanced `--recov_size`
Now supports modern size formats:
- **Old formats**: `20Mo`, `50Gio` (still supported)
- **New formats**: `20MB`, `50GB`, `100MB`, `2GB`
- **Examples**: 
  - `--recov_size=100MB`
  - `--recov_size=2GB`
  - `--recov_size=500MB`
- **Optional for files**: When `--recov_device` points to a file, `--recov_size` becomes optional
  - If not specified, the entire file will be read
  - Example: `--recov_device=/path/to/backup.img` (will read the entire file)

### WIF Format Conversion Tools

#### `--priv2wif=HEXKEY`
Convert a private key in hex format to WIF format.
- **Usage**: `--priv2wif=0C28FCA386C7A227600B2FE50B7CAE11EC86D3BF1FBE471BE89827E19D72AA1D`
- **Output**: Displays the WIF format of the provided hex private key

#### `--wif2priv=WIFKEY`
Convert a WIF format private key to hex format.
- **Usage**: `--wif2priv=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ`
- **Output**: Displays the hex format of the provided WIF private key

#### `--wifcheck=WIFKEY`
Check if a WIF format private key is valid.
- **Usage**: `--wifcheck=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ`
- **Output**: Displays whether the WIF key passes checksum validation

## Key Extraction vs Recovery: What's the Difference?

### `--extract_advanced` (For Intact Wallets)
**Use this when:**
- ✅ You have a complete `wallet.dat` file
- ✅ You know the wallet password
- ✅ The wallet file is not corrupted
- ✅ You want fast key extraction

**How it works:**
- Treats the file as a complete, valid wallet database
- Uses the known password to decrypt keys directly
- Follows normal wallet database structure
- **Fast and efficient**

**Example:**
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w wallets/wallet1.dat --extract_password=1234 --extract_output=keys.txt
```

### `--recover` (For Damaged/Missing Wallet Data)
**Use this when:**
- 🔧 Your wallet file is corrupted or partially deleted
- 🔧 You're scanning a hard drive for wallet remnants
- 🔧 You don't have a complete wallet.dat file
- 🔧 You're working with raw disk images or partitions

**How it works:**
- Scans data byte-by-byte looking for wallet patterns
- Attempts to reconstruct wallet information from fragments
- Requires manual passphrase input during the process
- **Much slower and more intensive**

**Example:**
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover --recov_device=/dev/sda1 --recov_size=100MB --output_keys=recovered_keys.txt
```

### Why `--recover` Might Hang
If you use `--recover` on an intact wallet file:
- It will scan the file byte-by-byte (unnecessary and slow)
- It will prompt for passphrases interactively
- It may appear to hang during decryption attempts
- **This is the wrong tool for the job!**

## Examples

### 1. Extract Keys from Intact Wallet (Recommended)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced \
    -w wallets/wallet1.dat \
    --extract_password=your_password \
    --extract_output=my_keys.txt \
    --extract_max_keys=100
```

### 2. Basic Key Recovery from Damaged Data
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/dev/sda1 \
    --recov_size=500MB \
    --output_keys=my_recovered_keys.txt
```

### 2. Large Scale Recovery
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/dev/sdb1 \
    --recov_size=10GB \
    --output_keys=all_keys.txt
```

### 3. File-based Recovery (with Size Limit)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/path/to/disk/image.img \
    --recov_size=1GB \
    --output_keys=recovered.txt
```

### 4. File-based Recovery (Automatic Size Detection)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/path/to/backup.img \
    --output_keys=recovered.txt
```

### 5. Traditional Wallet Creation (Unchanged)
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --recover \
    --recov_device=/dev/sda1 \
    --recov_size=100MB \
    --recov_outputdir=./wallet_recovery
```

### 6. Convert Hex Private Key to WIF
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --priv2wif=0C28FCA386C7A227600B2FE50B7CAE11EC86D3BF1FBE471BE89827E19D72AA1D
```

### 7. Convert WIF to Hex Private Key
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --wif2priv=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ
```

### 8. Validate a WIF Key
```bash
./run_pywallet.sh --wifcheck=5HueCGU8rMjxEXxiPuD5BDku4MkFqeZyd4dZ1jvhTVqvbTLvyTJ
```

## Output Format

When using `--output_keys`, the text file contains both hex and WIF formats:
```
# Recovered private keys
# Generated by pywallet recovery
# Format: private keys in both hex and WIF formats
# Each key is provided in both uncompressed and compressed format

# HEX FORMAT KEYS:
3c9229289a6125f7fdf1885a77bb12c37a8d3b4962d936f7e3084dece32a3ca1
3c9229289a6125f7fdf1885a77bb12c37a8d3b4962d936f7e3084dece32a3ca101
e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b855
e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b85501
...

# WIF FORMAT KEYS:
5JA7QYoYKimso8jHZrUGDLLiqwEJa3uKyUQnpMcPyxP8jNG8acc
KwdMAjGmerYanjeui5SHS7JkmpZvVipYvB2LJGU1ZxJwYvP98617
5Jbm9rrusXMYL8HqtVJWANrKZWGNgMXTYqN9VVvV71TjdphjRPR
KyBwDMRRz5Xd1XVo4JPcgoLiC9UYFNRmYEjXQvBKBBsRZtCNUPWM
...
```

## System Requirements

- **Python**: 3.6 or higher
- **OS**: Linux, macOS, Windows (with WSL)
- **Memory**: Minimum 1GB RAM
- **Storage**: Depends on recovery size

## Troubleshooting

### Berkeley DB Error (BDB2509)
If you get an error like: `Error opening wallet: (22, 'Invalid argument -- BDB2509 the log files from a database environment')`

**Cause:** Stale Berkeley DB environment files in the wallet directory.

**✅ FIXED IN VERSION 2.2-py3-improved:**
This issue has been **automatically resolved** in the current version! The `--extract_advanced` command now uses:
- **Temporary directory isolation**: Creates a clean temporary environment for each extraction
- **Progressive database opening**: Tries multiple database access methods automatically
- **Smart fallback system**: Starts with simple direct access, then tries minimal environment, then full environment
- **Automatic cleanup**: Removes all temporary files after extraction

**The fix works automatically - no manual intervention needed!**

**Legacy Manual Solutions** (for older versions or if issues persist):
1. **Remove stale database files:**
   ```bash
   # Navigate to your wallet directory
   cd wallets/
   # Remove Berkeley DB environment files
   rm -f __db.*
   ```

2. **Copy wallet to clean directory:**
   ```bash
   # Create a clean directory
   mkdir clean_wallets
   # Copy only the wallet.dat file (not the __db.* files)
   cp wallets/wallet.dat clean_wallets/
   # Use the clean copy
   ./run_pywallet.sh --extract_advanced -w clean_wallets/wallet.dat --extract_password=PASSWORD --extract_output=keys.txt
   ```

3. **Check wallet file integrity:**
   ```bash
   # Verify the wallet file is not corrupted
   file wallets/wallet.dat
   # Should show: "Berkeley DB (Log, version X, native byte-order)"
   ```

**Technical Details of the Fix:**
The BDB2509 error occurred because the Berkeley DB environment was being opened with the `DB_RECOVER` flag, which created conflicting `__db.*` environment files. The fix implements:

1. **Isolated Temporary Environment**: Each extraction operation uses a fresh temporary directory
2. **Progressive Access Strategy**:
   - First: Direct database access (fastest, no environment files)
   - Second: Minimal environment with memory pool only
   - Third: Full environment without logging
   - Final: Full environment with all flags as fallback
3. **Comprehensive Cleanup**: All temporary files and database environments are properly closed and removed

This ensures that wallet extractions never interfere with each other or leave stale environment files.

### UI/Prompt Display Issues

**✅ Fixed: Passphrase prompt instructions appearing after input request**
- **Issue**: Previously, the instructions for entering passphrases would appear after the prompt, making it unclear what the user should enter
- **Fix**: Added proper output buffering control to ensure instructions appear before the input prompt
- **Applies to**: `--recover` command when asking for wallet passphrases

### Virtual Environment Issues
```bash
# Recreate virtual environment
rm -rf pywallet_build_env
./install.sh
```

### Permission Issues
```bash
# Make scripts executable
chmod +x install.sh run_pywallet.sh
```

### Missing Dependencies
```bash
# Install system dependencies
sudo apt-get install libdb-dev python3-dev build-essential
```

## Version Information

- **Version**: 2.2-py3-improved
- **Python Support**: 3.6+
- **Based on**: pywallet 2.2
- **Improvements**: Python 3 compatibility, enhanced recovery features

## License

Same as original pywallet project.
